---
layout: blog_post
title: What is an Apprentice?
archive: true
tags:
- apprenticeship patterns
- pragmatic thinking and learning
---

I know next to nothing about Development. So when I see people and projects
around me, I begin to suffocate. I get so insecure and nervous, because the
people I work with seem to know so much more than I do and I hadn't felt that
before. In high school, people were so disinterested in learning and I felt
smarter, because I was there to learn, not because the government forced me to
be there, and that gave me an edge.

Now, I am spending approximately 8 hours a day with people who are engaged in
their work and are making an effort to learn or teach in addition to their work.
They are doing things that I want to do in my life, and watching them, I get
scared, so scared. Scared that when it comes time for me to do what they are
doing, I will fail. Every morning, I consider that fear, but I wake up and go to
the office everyday. I go because I know they all will be there to help me make
it, they all have the faith that I will do it. They don't make fun of any
question I have, they are genuinely interested in what I am doing, and they try
to involve me in what they are doing. They do it, because they see a little bit
of themselves, as I see myself in them. They know how that fear feels, as any
journeyman or master does, and they want to do what was done for them.

This may have been how an apprentice in Medieval times felt. Watching the
masters and journeymen around me, I am beginning to believe that I can do it. I
just need to work and learn. It will take time, so much time. It won't happen in
a week, or even a summer, but I will get there. I will become a journeyman, and
then a master. It simply takes work, passion, and time. I need to have the
passion in the craft that I pursue, and the passion to learn. It will take work
to overcome fears about my journey, just like I need to work to find the next
opportunity. I could wait and go to college and work for a corporation, hoping
that I will have learned enough to make myself successful. I could also start
now, and start to learn from the journeymen and the masters, learn with other
apprentices. I could become a journeyman, knowing that I will have learned
enough to be successful, and after more work and learning, become a master,
allowing me to help other people to learn what I had. It simply takes work,
passion and time. There is no barrier to entry besides yourself. There are
people who want to teach a willing learner, you just have to find them.

Getting back to the original question, I think an apprentice is someone who puts
themselves out there, in order to find people to learn from. The may be afraid,
but doing it, despite that fear, is a sign that they are that much more driven.
There are times that they are lost, but they always find their way. There are
more people to be around and learn from, and a true apprentice will find them.
