---
layout: blog_post
title: 'Real World Application of Patterns: Working on the Wiki'
tags:
- apprenticeship patterns
- edgecase
archive: true
---

Since the beginning of June I have been working with EdgeCase. I have read
books like Apprenticeship Patterns by [Dave
Hoover](http://twitter.com/redsquirrel) and [Adewale
Oshineye](http://twitter.com/ade_oshineye) and Pragmatic Thinking and Learning
by [Andy Hunt](http://twitter.com/PragmaticAndy). I have been working on
[JRubyConf](http://twitter.com/jrubyconf), by reaching out to user groups and
working on the website. I have done some programming along the way, but I now
have a new and exciting project ahead of me.

I am working on a wiki, the challenge: it will not use gems. I will use this to
record the things I have learned and the thing I will learn, keeping track of
books, ideas or other things that I hear about. I will open source the
knowledge base for others on
[GitHub](http://github.com/daedalus96/knowledge_base). I think that this tool
will become invaluable moving forward in my apprenticeship. This project will
allow me to practice a few key patterns, such as Breakable Toys, Record What
You Learn, Read Constantly, and Expand Your Bandwidth.

One of the best ways to learn is by failing and learning from it. If an
apprentice is in a postion where they can not fail, or if failure is not part
of their timeline, the may need to take on a pet project to play with. This
will allow them to develop their skills, and give them an outlet to fail, with
no skin in the game. This can be anything the apprentice can think of. A game,
an app, or a plugin for their favorite app are all acceptable, the only
requirement being that one has fun with it.

My Breakable Toy is the wiki. It will not be easy to build it, but I know that
I am having fun working on it. I am building it without gems or test/unit, and
it is test-driven, so I have learned about rake tasks, and written one to run
my tests. I know that I can do this, but I have no illusions that it will take
me plenty of time. This is my Toy, and I can make it, or Break it.

As the most overused quote in History classes goes, those who fail to learn
from history are doomed to repeat it. That is exactly what you can avoid when
you Record What You Learn. An apprentice would use this pattern when they begin
to feel like they are returning to the same lessons. When the same issue
returns again and again, and they solve it, from scratch, multiple times, then
this pattern becomes the solution. The apprentice must find a way to record the
things that they learn, the answers to problems that they regularly encounter.

Part of using this wiki will include solutions to issues that I commonly
encounter. When there is an idiom in a language that I always need to look up
again, it should go into the wiki. Whenever I have an issue, I will be able to
access this wiki and add the issue and solution, so I can use it the next time
such an issue arises.

As an apprentice, I have learned a lot from reading. The knowledge that I have
had passed onto me is important to my future. I started [Russ
Olsen](http://twitter.com/russolsen)'s book Eloquent Ruby this past weekend,
and it has already changed the way that I work with code. Listing books that I
want to read and keeping notes on the ones I have read is a way that I will
never be at a lack of reading material. This will aid me as I Expand My
Bandwidth.

An apprentice needs to be able to increase the amount that they learn at least
once in their season as an apprentice. By turning the learning rate up to 11
(on a scale from 1 to 10, 10 being fastest), they are opened up to a whole new
world. The wiki will be an integral part of this.

I am extremely excited for this project. It will take me past my current level
of knowledge, and I will make it. As always, I would love any feedback at
isaacbfsanders AT gmail DOT com.
