---
layout: blog_post
title: Wax on, Wax off
tags:
- areas of continued improvement
archive: true
---

Today I watched the 1984 version of The Karate Kid for the first time. In the
movie, the hero Daniel Larusso, does many tasks for his mentor, Mr Miyagi. The
tasks seem to hold no benefit to Danny's karate skills. The are repetitive and
strenuous. He confronts his mentor to teach him karate. Miyagi shows him the
tasks' specific movements have ingrained a muscle memory in Danny that would
allow him to block many attacks, an important part of karate. The contextless
recipes that Miyagi had for Danny is what took him to the next level to win in
the tournament, which was his goal.

Upon digestion and reflection of the past two weeks, I have seen that the tasks
my mentor has given me have value in running a business and in development, two
of my goals. The tasks have taught me how to hunt for a point of contact with
someone, or a specific piece of documentation to solve a larger problem. They
have taught me to absorb, digest, reflect, and share new ideas. I am learning
skills for life that a 17-year-old will not normally get a chance to learn.

I do not need an "empty cup". I need to have no "cup" at all. Having a "cup"
means that I may not be able to appreciate or accept the type of information
that I am presented with. It means that I walk in with expectations that may be
founded in fiction, instead I need to expect only to learn, and not be bound to
the topic of the things that I am learning. The topic does not matter. It is
the context that I see it in that affects how the information applies in a
given situation. Being frustrated because I am not learning "karate" is
understandable, but I am also expected to reflect on what I have learned and
see what I need is actually there.

Wax on, Wax off, Daniel-san.
