---
layout: blog_post
title: What Can I Say?
---

##2011: The Best Year of My Life

This has been a wonderful year. I have met countless wonderful people, I have
learned countless invaluable things, and I have done countless unbelieveable
things. If you were to ask me what I would be doing now, this time last year, I
would not be able, in my wildest dreams, to tell you this is where I would be
and what I would be doing.

This past year has been unconventional, for a high school student. I have been
blessed to go to the school that I go to, that has afforded me the opportunity
to expand my learning outside the classroom. I am sad that I have not been able
to be there to teach the younger students, but I can't wait to tell them the
wonderful things I learn on Walkabout.

One of the groups of people that I own the most to is the amazing crew at
EdgeCase. Joe, Ken, Shelley, Dan, Monica, Adam, Leon, Jerry, Justine, Aaron,
Felix, Scott, Andrew, Tony, John, Marc, Tyler, Jacki, Mike, Mike, Matt, Matt,
Matt and Matt are some of the most awesome people ever, and I hope I always get
to work with a group as talented and nurturing as they are. I learned a lot at
EdgeCase and I know that they will continue to teach me lessons that I don't
even know exist yet. I owe so much to them.

The next group that I want to remember is the wonderful Developer community. In
Columbus we have a very intelligent, caring and dedicated people who always wish
to teach and learn. I have spent a great deal of time going to different User
Groups and I would be happy to encourage anyone who reads this to do the same. I
always learn something new and it is wonderful to meet those who work hard every
day to improve their craft.

After I left EdgeCase, I was left with an interesting dilemma. My high school
had wanted me to either take classes (the credits for which I did not need), or
I needed to find something else. When faced with that difficult decision, I
started looking. My search for a learning opportunity panned out when I found
that 2Checkout.com, a hosted payment processor located in Hilliard, OH, was
looking for junior developers. I sent my resume to Tony Santucci, the director
of Product Development at 2Checkout. Not expecting people to take me seriously,
I was surprised when he wished to meet with me. After my meeting with Tony, I
had become the newest Intern at 2Checkout. My time there has been extremely
educational and unforgetable. The people in Product Development and QA and ESG
are a great bunch and I know they will continue to do high quality work (and
maybe they will be able to get some work done when that talkative intern
leaves).

One of the most transformative things I was exposed to is the idea of
Craftsmanship. I have been blessed to have this group of role models (that's
right, all of you). The beginning of my journey as an apprentice has been a
fortuitious one, and I know that as long as I continue to watch and listen and
learn from you all, my fortune won't run out. 2011 has been the best year of my
life.

##2012: Looking Even Better

After 2011, 2012 has big shoes to fill. Having said that, I know that this year
can do that and more.

Next week will be my last week at 2Checkout. It is bittersweet leaving, as I
will miss my wonderful coworkers, but the future holds great things for me.
After I clean out my desk at 2Checkout, I pack my bags for Kalahari Resort in
Sandusky, Ohio for CodeMash 2012! I am can not describe how excited I am to go,
and I thank Jim Holmes, President of the CodeMash board, for giving me the
opportunity to volunteer to get to the conference. I can't wait to make new
friends and catch up with old friends.

If that were not enough for a Janurary, I will be moving to Cleveland to work
with the cool cats at LeanDog. My mentor will be the incredible Doc Norton. Even
though I may feel nervous about being on my own, I am terribly excited to
experience life on my own.

After I finish up my time with LeanDog in March, I will be moving to Chicago to
work at Groupon. My mentor will be Dave Hoover.

I think I am going to go welcome in 2012. It looks fantastic, and I know I will
learn a lot.

Happy New Year Folks, and thank you for the best year of my life.
