---
layout: blog_post
title: Pragmatic Thinking and Learning Synopsis
tags:
- pragmatic thinking and learning
archive: true
---

For the past month I have been reading the book Pragmatic Thinking and
Learning, by Andy Hunt. The book is full of information about how the human
brain functions and where we can improve brain function. It covers the Dreyfus
Model of Skill Acquisition and R-mode and L-mode thinking to lay a DSL for the
books. The Dreyfus model, as explained in an earlier post, is a hierarchy of
five levels of proficiency. Starting at Novice, each of the subsequent levels
of proficiency call for more context, less rules, and higher involvement with
the big picture. R-mode and L-mode are both ways that the brain functions.
R-mode is an abbreviation of Rich-mode, while L-mode is  an abbreviation of
Linear-mode. R-mode works with more context and intuition, while L-mode is very
rational and logical. Hunt goes on to expose that we have "bugs" in the
"coding" of our brain. He talks about how our biases affect our decisions and
how we can work to overcome them.

In the second part of the book, he teaches the reader how to learn more
deliberately. He explains how to make SMART goals (specific, measurable,
attainable, realistic, and timely) and that their use will make one more
accountable. Another tool for making us more accountable is something he calls
the Pragmatic Investment Plan. In the PIP, one makes conscious investments into
their knowledge "portfolio". One such way to make these investments is by
reading, but by reading using focused techniques. Hunt gives us the SQ3R
(Survey, Question, Read, Recite, Review) technique and mind-mapping, a way of
visually linking our thoughts together.

As the book progresses, we are taught about how to avoid pressure and learning
to play the Inner Game. We learn to focus ourselves and solve problems by going
out of focus. It is with these tools and more that we can effectively learn and
critically think in regards to problems we may encounter.

I thoroughly enjoyed to book, and while there were some dry parts, the overall
content was extremely rewarding. I would suggest this book to anybody, and I
hope that after this synopsis you all will consider it. I have a small list of
things in my PIP to add to my knowledge portfolio, and I am using SQ3R and
mind-mapping to help with my learning.
