---
layout: blog_post
title: Why do I want to go to Carnegie Mellon?
archive: true
---

When I first considered the question of why I wanted to go to CMU,
I could not articulate my answer. There are reasons Ohio State
would be a good choice, for example I could go there cheaply, and I
could graduate sooner. University of Michigan offers advantages. It
is a big school with a decent CS program, and there are networking
opportunities. But I couldn't describe this wonderful feeling
inside me when I thought of going to CMU.

It could be that I want
to go to CMU because I have heard exciting things from a friend who
is a student. He is always talking about some cool event that is
happening at CMU. He works with a group of other extremely
intelligent CMU students to start a business. The things that he
does are interesting, but these aren't the only reasons I am
applying.

Carnegie-Mellon has the best faculty for computer science
in the country. I don't know of any other school that can boast the
same quality of professors. I am attracted to the fact that the
school provides its students with opportunities for learning
outside of the classroom by joining with various technological
"giants" such as Google, Apple, and Microsoft. For me, these are
not the most compelling reasons.

Regardless of what I had heard, I
wouldn't know that CMU would be right for me till I visited. This
past summer, my mother and I visited Pittsburgh to learn more about
Carnegie Mellon and get a feeling for the campus. Over the course
of the visit, I got a chance to walk through campus and learn my
way around. I felt whole at Carnegie. It gave me a feeling that no
other school had given me. It gave me the feeling of a place I
could call home.

I think the reason that Carnegie-Mellon is the
school that I want to go to more than any other university is the
community. During my visit to CMU I walked through the Gates Center
with my friend. He showed me all of the interesting things about
the building and told me about the classes that he had taken there.
But the most striking thing about the center was how much space was
dedicated to collaboration. I was fascinated that there were whole
rooms for students to work together. I was excited that CMU was a
school that not only approved of collaboration, but was openly
facilitating it. I hadn't seen that at other schools I visited.
Other schools were proud to be more competitive, and
Carnegie-Mellon was proud to be more collaborative. That matters to
me because I love to work with other people.

During my visit to
Carnegie Mellon, I could sense the powerful collaborative spirit
that the students share, and it excited me. It excited me to think
of the opportunity to work with other students who share my passion
for computers and helping others. It excited me to think of
learning from and working with professors who developed the
relevant technologies that they are teaching the students about.

I am always looking for the next challenge and the fast pace and
intense curriculum of the SCS is the type of environment where I
would thrive. I would have a chance to work with students who are
better at certain things than I am, and I would be able to teach
them things that I know. I know that there is an abundance of
skilled students in CS, and not only for programming. Personally, I
have the goal of starting my own company. Being around a group of
intelligent, like-minded people means that possible business
partners are next door. I want to go into computer science because
I love computers. However, I know that computer science suffers
without the art of human interaction. I want to fuse the two and
change the world. Carnegie-Mellon's School of Computer Science can
help me do just that.
