---
layout: blog_post
title: Dreyfus Model of Skill Aquisition
archive: true
---

The Dreyfus model of skill acquisition is a way of measuring someone's
progression through learning skills. It rates them at one of five different
levels. There are Novices, the lowest and least experienced of the five. They
require strict rules to perform, and have little to no context of what they are
doing. The Advanced Beginner is slightly more responsible, and understands the
context of a problem a little bit better. Most people who have careers in a
specific area can be placed at the Competent level. Those who are Competent
have a greater understanding of the effects of their actions in relation to the
set goals, and have built routines for how they perform the actions related to
this skill. A Proficient person will have a better view of the situation, and
will have the context to prioritize its aspects. The top level of this model is
the Expert. The Expert not only has a better understanding of the project on
whole, but can see where it will go based on the knowledge that they have
accumulated. The Experts actions are based more on intuition, than the strict
rules that a Novice needs.

I am either an Advanced Beginner or Competent with regards to programming, but a
Novice in software development. I have other skills in which I am Proficient,
such as camping. I will go through a few skills that I am working on, and
reflect on how I can improve and what allowed me to get where I am.

Camping- I am an Eagle Scout, and I have been active in Scouting for the past 11
years. I started as a Tiger Cub and am now active in Scouting's Honor Society,
the Order of the Arrow. I have camped more than I can recount (rough geusstimate
at 150 days and nights), and I have helped other campers learn how to get better
themselves. It is because of this and other reasons, I believe that I am
Proficient in camping. I still, however, have plenty of room to improve. I have
not camped on my own for a long time, but would like to plan a trip that would
test my abilities. I enjoy hiking or biking, so I might try to do a bike trek or
backpacking trip sometime this summer.

Organization- I am not an extremely organized person. I lose things and forget
things all of the time. Sometimes it can take me hours to find something that is
sitting right in front of me. I have little concept of how things should be
organized. I consider my self a Novice organizer. Some ways that I could improve
would probably begin with getting rid of some stuff that I don't need/use on a
regular basis. Removing the clutter from my life should allow me to sleep better
and clearer focus. Once I get rid of unnecessary things, then the important
things may begin to fall into logical groups.

Programming- I have always been interested in computers. My mother tells a story
that I was moving a mouse and clicking on things when I was 6 months old. When I
was in 4th grade, I started looking into computer programming, but could not
find a good starting place. It was not til my Sophomore year of high school,
when I started the Post Secondary Education program at OSU, that I started
learning my first language. The class I took was in Java, and I loved it. It was
at that point that I knew that I just had to do this the rest of my life. Last
winter, I took a introductory course in C++ and furthered my understanding of
programming theory. I would place myself at Advanced Beginner or Proficient in
programming. Some of the thoughts I have to get stronger is to continue watching
and learning from the people I meet at the Columbus Ruby Brigade and Code and
Coffee, both of which are developer meetups around Columbus. I plan to work with
Joe, my mentor, for a long time to come, and I know that he will do his best to
make my experience the best that it can be.

I have a lot of things to work on, and I am, slowly but surely. The only way to
eat an elephant is one bite at a time, so I don't expect to change over night. I
just want to ask that anyone who reads this to consider making a list of things
that they are good at, ok at, and maybe not so great at, and think of some ways
to improve. If you do, and end up blogging it, make sure to leave a link in the
comments.

Sources: Wikipedia.org, Pragmatic Thinking and Learning
