---
layout: blog_post
title: It is No Use
---

I am have been seeing a lot of people complaining about commenters on various
new aggregators. They are not happy with the ignorance and prejudice of the
comments. Some have chosen to think that this means that our entire community is
poisoned, and others believe it shows that the youth will be the end of educated
soceity.

##Root of the Cause

I am not sure what they true cause of any of this is, but I believe that it has
to do with the abundance of anonymity on the internet. There are countless
people who have hidden biases and expose them on the Internet, and there are
others who believe that treating others well doesn't matter, so as a rule they
don't. I think that it is pointless to worry if there are productive and
intelligent discussions happening on any of these sites. The more productive
discussion will happen between people who hold each other accountable, and those
are the discussions that we should be listening to. If you say inflammatory
things, it doesn't matter in the long run. If you want to influence things, you
should be representing your beliefs with your whole person.

##What about the Community?

The community that we are living and working in will always have people that we
don't agree with. The best we can do is genuinely try to understand them, and in
failing, try to educate them. The community will always be healthy with people
who care about the quality of discussion. When we lose focus and focus our
strength on being disappointed, we become just as bad as they are. If there is
even a "they" that we aren't.

##&lt;rant name="youth"&gt;

We can't blame the issues of our community on the youth. When we are younger it
is important that we make mistakes. If we didn't, then we would be doomed to
make them when there is more risk to ourselves and our families. Getting angry
that younger people don't know something that you do and blaming their age is
failing to address the actual issue. They __honestly__ don't know. Don't claim
that they will doom the world, but help them to understand it. Thinking that the
youth can do any worse than is already done is saying a lot.

And if you want to do more to help them, I would suggest influencing the
community to move away from the "alcohol worship" that I have encountered. As
one of the younger people in the community, it is the thing that makes me the
most uncomfortable, and if you really want to find a way to help fix the
education system, become a more welcoming environment. I am not in any way
saying that alcohol is bad, I wouldn't know. What I am saying is that if you
are genuinely interested in making development more accessible to the youth
(before they decide they need college to learn how to program), then you need to
make an environment that is safer and more comfortable for them. If that
means you don't choose alcohol as a form of rebellion, or as a replacement for
doing something else, then you are free to make that choice.

Please realize that I am an 18 year old, if what I say makes your angry,
__IGNORE ME__

&lt;/rant&gt;

##Have something to tell me?

Did something I say offend you? Did I say something that you don't believe?
Please email me at
[isaac@isaacbfsanders.com](mailto:isaac+offended@isaacbfsanders.com).


If would like to have a productive discussion about this with me, please email
me at [isaac@isaacbfsanders.com](mailto:isaac+discussive@isaacbfsanders.com).

Have a great weekend.
