---
title: My Trip to RailsConf 2012
layout: blog_post

---

Last week, I got back from my first RailsConf! I can't believe how many people I
met and talked to. I will do a day by day breakdown, recalling as best I can the
people that I met.

__Day 1: Monday, April 23__

At breakfast, I met with [Gavin Stark](http://twitter.com/gavinstark) and one of
his colleagues, both from [realdigitalmedia.com](http://realdigitalmedia.com). I
had a great time chatting about all sorts of things, including OSS and patent
trolling.

I spent most of this day attending talks, but met some "celebrities," including
Rich Hickey, DHH, Sven Fuchs, James Edward Gray II, and Chad Fowler. I did not
have as much of a conversation with all of them as I should have, but I hope to
rectify that at the next opportunity.

For dinner, I went with the members of a team that I have worked with at
Groupon.

__Day 2: Tuesday, April 24__

I went to [#codeandcoffee](https://twitter.com/#!/search/%23codeandcoffee):
RailsConf 2012 Edition. While there was only a handful of us, and we were all
from Groupon, we still had a great time and were ready for the conference
afterwards.

Today was crazy. I met Xavier Shay, Aaron Patterson, Avdi Grimm, and all of this
year's Ruby Heroes. I went to lunch with Aaron Bedra, Ryan Bigg, Scott Ford, and
Engineers from Railsdogs.

In the afternoon, I spent time at the Heroku booth chatting with their
engineers, including Terence Lee. I also met Yehuda Katz there as well. It was
amazing to be able to ask the people who maintain so many projects that we all
use what they felt about their projects.

I went to dinner with Jim Wierich, Mike Clark, and Nicole Clark. It was really
nice to have a quiet dinner with great conversation. I am sure that conference
parties are fun, but I really enjoyed meeting the Clarks and I always enjoy the
time I spend with Jim.

After getting back, I met up with Nick and Amanda Quaranto, Jon Yurek, and Gabe
Berke-Williams. We played some card games. Did I mention that I love our
community? The wide array of interests that we all have makes events like this
wonderful.

__Day 3: Wednesday, April 25__

At breakfast, I met Elise, one of the EngineYard marketing folks. She has a
degree in nueroscience, and I really enjoyed hearing what her perspective is on
the community.

Back at the conference center, I met Matthew, one of the Hashrocket Rocketeers,
and was interviewed, regarding my open source project Githubris.

__Conclusion__

RAILSCONF ROCKS! Seriously, I would encourage anyone to go. I hope that I can go
again next year. I want to thank Groupon for making it possible for me to be
there.
