---
layout: blog_post
title: My Goals for 2012
---

This is a list of things I would like to be true by the end of this year. I am
not sure if you all care, but if you do, I would ask that you help keep me
accountable. If these goals are not SMART, please comment and explain why. When
I say SMART I mean that a goal is:

- Specific: Does the goal have a clear definition of "Done"?
- Measurable: Can I see how close I am to "Done"?
- Attainable: What steps do I need to take to get it "Done"?
- Relevant: Is this going to be worthwhile?
- Time-bound: Is this possible in my timeframe (one year)?

##Goals

###Reading

I will read at least one book every month, and I will commit to a book before,
or early in, the month.

__My Reason:__

I have a lot of books that are unread. I have a lot of knowledge I need to
gather. It will be enriching to read more, as I have not done as much as I like.

__Next Steps:__ I will be finishing The Little LISPer this month, and I will
start thinking about what I will read next month.

###Social

I will turn down less than 10% of invitations to social gatherings/events and I
will try to initiate at least 40 such events over the course of the year.

__My Reason:__

I sometimes feel lonely, but I also turn down invitations to hang out with
friends, coworkers, etc. It is my goal to break that habit and instead be as
open to spending time with others as possible.

I believe this will make me happier and I will have a better relationship with
those I am around.

__Next Steps:__ Understand why I do this, and work to confront it. I will work to
identify opportunities to socialize.

_Disclaimer: If the invitation would lead me to do
something unethical or illegal, I will turn it down, and not count it towards
the goal._

###Health

I will lose 25 pounds and I will work to keep that weight off.

__My Reason:__

I am overweight. I need to work to stop eating as much as I do, and I need to
exercise more. This will be my first step in a larger goal.

I believe that this will help me start to live a healthier and more fufilling
life.

__Next Steps:__ Weigh myself. Identify areas of weakness and set smaller goals.
Find a workout buddy/group.

###Technological

I will learn a functional language and contribute to the community with some
project.

__My Reason:__

I love to learn, and new ideas interest me. I want to add this tool to my
toolbox, and I want to give back to a community that will have helped me as I
learn.

__Next Steps:__ I need to choose a language. Then I need to identify resources
to learn from.

##What Next?

These are not easy goals. Your support will be appreciated and it will keep me
going. If anyone would like to help me, let me know, I will need the help.

Next week is CodeMash. If you are going, I can't wait to see you.
