My freshman year of college only has ten more weeks before it is over. It has
been an amazing experience. I am glad that I chose to go to school, and that my
parents encouraged me to do so. To everyone who encouraged me to forego formal
schooling, thank you for your advice, but I have found a place that I want to
be for a few more years. Rose-Hulman is an amazing place where I have built
relationships with people my own age, something that I have never had much luck
with.

One of my reasons for coming to school was to learn more of the theoretical
side of Computer Science. I didn't come to learn how to code. I believe that
time in industry can teach practical programming skills better than time at
school. Likewise, I believe that to learn about more theoretical Computer
Science topics including data structures, compilers, and AI, an academic
environment will make that learning easier and more comprehensive. While I know
people who are self-taught in these subjects, I do not have the discipline to
teach myself, which is why school is a good choice for me.

There is one difficulty that I have found with going to school. At Rose,
students are encouraged to find opportunities over the summer. Career Services
helps to prepare people for the career fairs, and they do a great job at
finding good companies for a lot of the engineering disciplines. They also have
relationships with many companies that are looking for CS/SE students. I love
that Career Services works so hard for the students, but after the time that I
have spent in the best workplaces in the industry, I want to help place my
CS/SE classmates into environments where they will learn the best practices our
industry has to offer. I didn't think that this would be a difficult mission,
but it has turned out to be increasingly difficult to find companies willing to
take on low-skill people and provide mentorship to them. I want to thank all
the companies that have heard me out. I thank you for listening, even though
you might not hire anyone.

I have been extremely fortunate. My path has given me skills and a network that
is very well-connected. I have had multiple offers for an internship this
summer, and I am pleased to announce that I will be working with [Table
XI](http://www.tablexi.com)! Table XI is a consulting firm in Chicago, IL. They
are constant learners and have a wide array of interests. I am excited to be
part of Table XI this summer, and I can't wait to start. I want to thank
everyone that I interviewed or had an opportunity with, you all made my first
year of internship-seeking a very fruitful experience and one that I hope to
share with my classmates, so that they can find new and exciting learning
opportunities.
